# Scouting App and Decoder for FRC

This is a scouting app made by the 6364 FRC team in 2023-2024. It's very wonky, but hopefully it can be of use. 

Here is a youtube video explaining everything stated below (hopefully) in more details: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B0K4efcIaRI 

## Scouting App
 The app itself was made in godot 4.2 (although it also works on 4.1). 
 ### Adding a preset match type
  1. Running the main app in godot and making a new match type will print out the data representing all the currently saved match types.
  2.  In the console, find the one you want to add as a preset.
  3.   Open the main_menu script and ctrl+right click on the call to loadData() in the _ready() function (the code is long and messy, doing so helps find it easily).
  4.   Add the line ```Global.scoreScreensInfo["name of the preset"] = [the list that was printed out]``` below 	```Global.scoreScreensInfo = file.get_var()``` and after the else, and add Vector2 in front of the parts in the form of (##, ##).
  5.   Example: ```Global.scoreScreensInfo["test_2"] = [[], [], [[Vector2(-150.1667, -273), "dskd", 3]], [], [[Vector2(-209.6667, 53), "dcsnl", 3]], [], [], [], [[Vector2(53.66669, -266), "hullo", [2, 3, 4], ["csdd", "rfwq", "dskl"]]]]```
  6.   This match type will now be present even if the saved data is deleted.

### Export to android
1. Go to Project > Export
2. Select android if it is already there, otherwise add... > android
3. Click export project and save the apk file (replace the old one if you want)
4. Send the apk file to your android device (phone or tablet)
5. Click on the apk file on the android device and select install
6. Yay it should be installed

### Change the auto path
1. Go the the auto path tscn file
2. Add or remove auto items to your liking
3. Make sure all the auto items are in order and children of the bg object

### Hide or show the auto path
1. Open the Global.gd script
2. Set isAutoPathVisible to true if you want it to be visible and false if not

## QR Code Decoder
Running the main file will allow you to scan the QR codes generated by the scouting app.

### Setting up the fields
1. Set the file_name in spreadsheetCom to the name of the excel file you will be using
2. Set the categories in spreadsheetCom to ["personal score", "total score", buttons in your match type], where the buttons in your match type need to match exactly to what is in the scouting app (ie if you have a counter in the scouting app called "counter2", you need to add "counter2" to the categories list). The order that they are in the list is the same order that will show up in the excel sheet.
3. Set the rankingCategories in spreadsheetCom to the name of the rankings you want (each ranking will be added as a sheet and have all the teams listed with the average of that category/ies; it is usefull to see what team can do what).
4. Set rankingsIndex in spreadsheetCom to be the index corresponding to the categories used in the ranking. Each ranking is a list so that when there is more than one, excel will add the categories together (to be clear, this variable is a list of lists of integers).
5. Copy file_name to createfile.
6. Copy rankingCategories to createfile.

### Creating the excel file
Simply run createfile.

### Actually scanning the QR codes
Run the main file, which will use the camera and show you the video. Scan the QR code (it will be outlined in green when it has been successfully scanned and stuff will get printed out in the console)

### What the hell is happening in the excel file
- There will be many (MANY) sheets added during the comp.
- Theres all the ranking ones, wich will have all the teams and there average for the corresponfing category.
  - You can organize the teams to be in order of best to worst by selecting ALL the headers and seleting Filter > Custom Filter then filter by average or avg last 5 then selecting highest to lowest (it is important you select ALL headers, otherwise only some parts of the rows will be rearranged).
- Each team will have a sheet, with all the appropriate inputs. The averages are present on the header after the categories in the same order that they are in the list in spreadsheetCom.

## Good Luck! You Got This!!!
 
